# Marcelo Zoccoler

Hi! My name is Marcelo (not "Martchelo" in my case 😆) and I am an Electrical Engineer by formation, but also Life Sciences and Bio-Image Analysis aficionado!
I have always felt myself fluctuating between Engineering and Biology. Then I realized THAT could be exactly my place!
But because I am formally an Engineer and not a Biologist, nor a Physicist, most of my work has been done on tools and softwares for image analysis focused on microscopy data.
During my Masters and PhD in Biomedical Engineering, I have worked with measuring microtubules stiffness by image analysis and modeling in UJF (now Université Grenoble Alpes) in France. Then, I have performed experiments with single cardiomyocytes under electrical fields in a fluorescent microscope that was developed by our group at UNICAMP in Brazil. There, I started developing algorithms and softwares for bio-image analysis in MATLAB and python! I also used a lot of Fiji as well for sure! Most recently, I have contributed in the development of a software to analyze Giant Unilamellar Vesicles (GUV) data and an online simulator as a tool to teach students about electrochemical balance accross a semipermeable membrane. During the COVID19 pandemic, I implemented a web application to display graphics about medical equipment data from "Hospital das Clínicas" in Brazil.

Now, as a researcher at Physics of Life at TU Dresden, I am developing courses and tools, mostly in Python and Fiji, that are intended to break down the barriers that biologists and biophysicists might experience when delving into the data science jungle.
